16 - 

Chinese and Indian soldiers are engaged in a major stand-off in Ladakh after Chinese troops yesterday stopped work on the construction of an irrigation canal being built under the rural development or MNREGA scheme, sources told NDTV.

The incident took place yesterday in the Demchok sector, located 250 km east of Leh, where a project is underway to link a village with a hot spring. Demchok in the south eastern tip of Ladakh was also the location of a major incursion by China two years ago which resulted in a spike in tension between the two countries.

Yesterday, around 55 Chinese soldiers arrived at the scene along the Line of Actual Control or de facto border and halted the work in an aggressive manner, news agency Press Trust of India quoted unnamed officials as saying. 70 Indian soldiers fortified the area and prevented their march deeper into Indian territory, the sources disclosed to PTI.    

"[There are] routine objections and clarifications which either party seek whenever there is construction related activity. The issue is being resolved through established mechanisms," said army sources to NDTV, asking not to be named.  

The spike in tension comes a day before National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is to meet senior Chinese officials.

The Chinese troops demanded that work be stopped as either side needs to take permission before undertaking any construction, a claim disputed by India which says that information about projects needs to be shared only if it is meant for defence purposes.

After taking office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has moved boldly to counter China. 72 strategic roads are being built along the border to narrow the gap with China's vastly superior and intricate network of roads and tracks in the mountains.

India has also rebuilt airfields, including a landing strip laid in Daulat Beg Oldi in Ladakh in 1962. C-130 Hercules planes bought from the United States have been landing at the airfield.

Incursions from both sides are common along the Line of Actual Control, because the armies cannot agree where it lies.

In 2014, China protested India's work on an irrigation canal, saying it was located inside its territory and 500 Chinese soldiers entered the area and swiftly built a 2-km road.

Around 1,000 soldiers from each side were ranged against each other for days toil the confrontation subsided.

20 - 

Terrorism is the process unfair and violent activities performed by the group of trained people called terrorists. There is only one boss who gives strict orders to the group to perform particular activity in any ways. They want money, power and publicity for the fulfilment of their unfair ideas. In such conditions, it is media which really helps to spread the news about terrorism in the society of any nation. Group of terrorist also take support of the media by especially contacting them to let them know about their plan, ideas and goals.
Various groups of the terrorists are named according to their aims and objectives. Acts of terrorism affects the human mind to a great extent and makes people so fear that they fear to go outside from their own home. They think that there is terror everywhere outside the home in the crowd like railway station, temple, social event, national event and so many. Terrorists want to spread terror within specific area of high population in order to publicize for their act as well as rule on people’s mind. Some recent act of terrorism are 9/11 attacks on the U.S. and 26/11 attack in India. It has affected the financial status and humanity to a great extent.
In order to reduce the terror and effect of terrorism from the nation, a tight security arrangement is done on the order of government. All the places which are crowded because of any reasons like social programmes, national events like Republic day, Independence Day, temple and etc. Each and every person has to follow the rules of security arrangement and has to pass from the automatic machine of full body scanner. Using such machines, security get help in detecting the presence of terrorists. Even after arrangement of such tight security, we are still unable to make it effective against the terrorism.
Our country is spending lots of money every year to fight against the terrorism as well as remove the terrorist group. However, it is still growing like a disease as new terrorists are getting trained on daily basis. They are very common people like us but they are trained to complete some unfair act and forced to fight against their one society, family and country. They are so trained that they never compromise their life, they are always ready to finish their life while fighting. As an Indian citizen, we all are highly responsible to stop the terrorism and it can be stopped only when we never come into the greedy talk of some bad and frustrated people.

30 -

Police in riot gear shot rubber bullets and used pepper spray on demonstrators — who call themselves water protectors — on the shoreline of the Cantapeta Creek, just north of the Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation here on Wednesday.

After a few relatively peaceful days at the campground where thousands have gathered to demonstrate against a controversial North Dakota oil pipeline, demonstrators put out calls on social media to "make your way to the river" for a "river action," but to do so "in prayer."

In a Facebook Live stream, Cempoalli Twenny, who says he is at Standing Rock to protect the water, said, "The pipeline is getting really close to the river now, so it's crunch time."
Demonstrators on the shoreline prayed, played drums, sang, and waded into the river towards the base of the hill where armed police stood.

It was a "100 percent peaceful protest," according to activist Erin Schrode, who was shot in the lower back with a rubber bullet while standing on the shoreline opposite police. Schrode had joined others from the camp in solidarity as they prayed on the shoreline.

A confrontation erupted after law enforcement dismantled a wooden bridge that demonstrators constructed to access the sacred site.
"I was shot in point blank range," said Schrode, who says she is shaken but physically will recover. "Another water protector was also shot at twice at point blank range, but the rubber bullet hit the water, and not him."

In a press release, the Morton County Sheriff's Department said it used "less-than-lethal ammunition to control the situation" when a man threw bottles at officers on the police line and when another charged the police line. "Officers also deployed pepper spray and tear gas to disperse the group of protesters who came across the water and camp at officers," the release said.

Even as law enforcement warned protesters to leave the area and return to their camp, demonstrators could be heard yelling back at police.
"There was absolutely no provocation of any kind," said film director Josh Fox, who was also on scene. "The police pepper sprayed people sitting in the water."

Law enforcement vehicles and personnel have been stationed on a hill overlooking the shoreline in question for a number of days, and the hill is recognized as a burial ground and sacred site by the Standing Rock Sioux.

On Monday, people who identified themselves as water protectors waded across the creek to the hill to request that law enforcement move off the sacred area.

According to the Morton County Sheriff's Department public information officer, the police remained there "to prevent criminal trespass on private property."

Today, the Department says The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers gave Morton County orders to remove a wooden pedestrian bridge that had been constructed across the river and arrest any individuals who cross the river for criminal trespass.
"I was facing the line of officers from across the river and all of a sudden, I felt as if someone swung a mallet with all their might against my lower back. It obliterated me," said Schrode. "I turned around and I had no idea what just happened. And there was an officer pointing his gun in my direction from a boat."

Morton County called the situation a "standoff" and, in a press release, stated that "protesters involved in this activity are violating numerous federal and state laws."

E'sha Hoferer, who is a member of the Walker River Paiute Tribe and who says he is in Standing Rock to protect the water for his children and grandchildren, told NBC News before today's encounter with law enforcement that the construction of the pipeline is "desecrating a lot of sacred sites" and that "a lot of the traditional ecological knowledge that we have - that Standing Rock has - shows that we have ceremonial sites up there, sacred sites, burial sites," referring to the hill at the center of today's standoff.

This is the latest escalation over the controversial pipeline which would run within a half-mile of the Standing Rock Sioux reservation and cross the Missouri River, which is the main source of drinking water for the tribe.

The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has sued the Army Corps of Engineers for not consulting them on the route of the pipeline. Last week, police in riot gear used pepper spray and armored vehicles to disperse protesters and arrested more than 140 people.

"[President] Barack Obama said we can wait a few weeks. People are getting hurt, people are getting shot with rubber bullets, people are getting maced, and Obama is not stepping in," said Fox in a phone interview, referring to a recent interview with NowThis in which the president said he would let the situation "play out for several more weeks."

35 -

Uncertainty over "Brexit" deepened Thursday when a court ruled that Britain's government can't trigger the process of withdrawal from the European Union without approval from parliament — a decision that could scupper the entire process.

In a major blow for Prime Minister Theresa May, the High Court in London said her government needs the consent of lawmakers before launching Britain's withdrawal from the bloc.

It opens the possibility that members of the House of Commons could vote against Brexit, defying British voters who chose to quit the EU by 52 percent to 48 percent in a June 23 referendum.
May has repeatedly promised to respect the outcome of the referendum and indicated she would trigger Article 50 — the two-year process of negotiations toward EU withdrawal — by the end of March 2017.

However, her government will now appeal Thursday's ruling, which could leave her Brexit timetable in tatters.

British prime ministers can use the historic power of royal prerogative to make decisions on foreign affairs, such as withdrawal from treaties, without a parliamentary vote.
Campaigners filed a court challenge, arguing that leaving the EU would remove rights of employment and free movement — a change serious enough to require the approval of parliament.

Three senior judges ruled [PDF link here] that "the government does not have the power under the Crown's prerogative" to start EU exit talks.

May's government has a working majority in the House of Commons but the Brexit referendum campaign was cross-party and members of her party could join opposition lawmakers and soften or even veto the plans.

While British voters chose Brexit in the referendum, the result was a surprise for the government which had campaigned to remain in the EU and did not draw up contingency plans for what Brexit might entail.
No details were presented about the details of Britain's withdrawal — whether it would quit the bloc but remain inside a single market, for example — and many lawmakers believe the referendum result alone is not enough to allow Brexit on any terms.

May says those terms won't be known until the negotiation process begins. She has only repeated the mantra that "Brexit means Brexit" — without elaborating — leaving many voters, industry leaders and major employers in the dark about what a post-EU Britain would look like.

The confusion has done little to calm markets, which have seen the British pound tumble against the dollar and the euro. The pound has lost almost one fifth its value against the dollar since June. Minutes after Thursday's decision, the pound rose back up by 1.1 percent to $1.2430 as traders reacted to the news, Reuters reported.
The judges said their ruling was purely a question of law, not politics. "The court is not concerned with and does not express any view about the merits of leaving the European Union: that is a political issue," the judgement said.

"We will appeal this judgment," the U.K. government said in a statement. It said Brexit was endorsed "in a referendum approved by an Act of Parliament … and the government is determined to respect the result of the referendum."

Financial entrepreneur Gina Miller, one of the leading claimants, said the case was "not an attempt to stop Brexit — just to ensure that parliament is sovereign."

It was the second embarrassment for May in less than 24 hours. At a dinner attended by journalists late Wednesday, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson told his audience: "Brexit means Brexit and we are going to make a Titanic success of it."
LONDON — Uncertainty over "Brexit" deepened Thursday when a court ruled that Britain's government can't trigger the process of withdrawal from the European Union without approval from parliament — a decision that could scupper the entire process.


Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage told reporters he was angered at the decision.

"I worry that a betrayal may be near at hand … I now fear that every attempt will be made to block or delay the triggering of Article 50," he said. "If this is so, they have no idea of the level of public anger they will provoke."

However, conservative commentator Mark Wallace said he doubted lawmakers would veto the whole Brexit process.

"Anyone who thinks MPs will reject Article 50 … deluding themselves," he wrote on website Conservative Home. "The majority of the parliamentary Conservative Party now wants to get on with implementing the outcome of the referendum, regardless of which side they were on in the campaign. A pleasantly surprising number of Labour MPs have also taken on board the message from their Leave-voting constituencies. Having gone through the unpleasant experience of being at loggerheads with their voters on the doorstep, they rightly don't want to defy them now they have spoken."


47 -

Global warming is an increase in the average temperature of the earth’s temperature, especially a sustained change sufficient to cause climate change. The average facade temperature of the globe has increased more than degree since 1900 and the speed of warming has been almost three folds the century long average since 1970.

This increase in earth’s average temperature is called Global warming. More or less all specialists studying the climate record of the earth have the same opinion now that human actions, mainly the discharge of green house gases from smokestacks, vehicles, and burning forests, are perhaps the leading power driving the fashion.

The gases append to the planet’s normal greenhouse effect, permitting sunlight in, but stopping some of the ensuing heat from burning back to space.

Based on the study on past climate shifts, notes of current situations, and computer simulations, many climate scientists say that lacking of big curbs in greenhouse gas discharges, the 21st century might see temperatures rise of about 3 to 8 degrees, climate patterns piercingly shift, ice sheets contract and seas rise several feet.

With the probable exemption of one more world war, a huge asteroid, a fatal plague, or global warming may be the only worst dangers to our planet earth.

The major cause of global warming is the release of green house gases like carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide etc. into the atmosphere. The major source of carbon dioxide is the power plants. These power plants emit large amounts of carbon dioxide produced from burning of fossil fuels for the purpose of electricity generation.

About twenty percent of carbon dioxide emitted in the atmosphere comes from burning of gasoline in the engines of the vehicles. Buildings, both commercial and residential represent a larger source of global warming pollution than cars and trucks.

Building of these structures require a lot of fuel to be burnt which emits a large amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Methane is more than 20 times as effectual as C02 at entrapping heat in the atmosphere. Methane is obtained from resources such as rice paddies, bovine flatulence, bacteria in bogs and fossil fuel manufacture. The main sources of nitrous oxide include nylon and nitric acid production, cars with catalytic converters, and the use of fertilisers in agriculture and the burning of organic matter.

Another cause of global warming is deforestation that is caused by cutting and burning of forests for the purpose of residence and industrialisation.

Scientists all over the world are making predictions about the ill effects of Global warming and connecting some of the events that have taken place in the past few decades as an alarm of global warming. The effect of global warming is increasing the average temperature of the earth.

A rise in earth’s temperatures can in turn cause to other alterations in the ecology, including an increasing sea level and modifying the quantity and pattern of rainfall. These modifications may boost the occurrence and concentration of severe climate events, such as floods, famines, heat waves, tornados, and twisters.

Other consequences may comprise of higher or lower agricultural outputs, glacier melting, lesser summer stream flows, genus extinctions and rise in the ranges of disease vectors. As an effect of global warming, many species of birds and animals have already become extinct. As an effect of global warming various new diseases have emerged lately.

It is expected that many species will die off or become extinct due to the increase in the temperatures of the water, whereas various other species, which prefer warmer waters, will increase tremendously Perhaps the most disturbing changes are expected in the coral reefs that are expected to die off as an effect of global warming.

The global warming is expected to cause irreversible changes in the ecosystem and the behaviour of animals. Birds are a species that will be affected by a change in the climate. Global warming might result in birds finding a more permanent home in northern areas in the Northern Hemisphere.

The scientists tell us that the tundra is in danger of melting due to an amount of extra global warming pollution that is equivalent to the net amount that is previously in the earth’s/ atmosphere. Likewise, earlier one more team of scientists reported that in a single year Greenland witnessed 32 glacial earthquakes between 4.6 and 5.1 on the Richter scale.

This is a disturbing sign and points that a huge destabilisation that may now be in progress deep within the second biggest growth of ice on the planet. This ice would be enough to raise sea level 20 feet worldwide if it broke up and slipped into the sea.

Each day passing brings yet new proof that we are now in front of a global emergency, a climate emergency that needs instant action to shrilly decrease carbon dioxide emissions worldwide in order to turn down the earth’s rising temperatures and avoid any calamity.

It is not easy to attach any particular event to global warming, but studies prove the fact that human activities are increasing the earth’s temperature.

Even though most predictions focus on the epoch up to 2100, even if no further greenhouse gases were discharged after this date, global warming and sea level would be likely to go on to rise for more than a millennium, since carbon dioxide has a long average atmospheric life span.

Many efforts are being made by various nations to cut down the rate of global warming. One such effort is the Kyoto agreement that has been made between various nations to reduce the emissions of various green house gases. Also, many non profit organisations are working for the cause.

A1 Gore was one of the foremost U.S. politicians to heave an alarm about the hazards of global warming. He has produced a significantly acclaimed documentary movie called “An Inconvenient Truth” and has written a book that archives his advice that Earth is dashing toward an immensely warmer future.

A1 Gore, has given various speeches to raise an awareness of global warming. He has warned people about the ill effects of Global warming and its remedies.

The future of emissions damage depends on several factors, demographics, economics, technology, policies and institutional developments. Future predictions do not look good for this planet if nothing is done soon.



61

Corruption free government is not a necessary condition for rapid economic development. If the corporate and institutions work and uncertainty is checked, progress is possible. -S. SwaminathanCorruption in any form is treated as an incurable disease, a cause of many social and economical evils in the society and it damages the moral and ethical fibres of the civilization. Indisputably, it is correct that corruption breeds many evils in the society and once corruption starts taking place, slowly and gradually whole country passes through its net and it becomes after sometime an incurable disease. From the point of view of economic growth, there seems to be no clear cut correlation between corruption and the economic growth of a country. There may be presence of some social maladies like inequality of income among the people, moral degradation of people due to the prevalence of corruption, but the parameters of economic growth which are taken on percentage or an average basis are entirely different can find several countries having corrupt regime but yielding excellent economic results and other countries with clean regime showing very poor results in terms of economic prosperity and growth.Transparency International publishes every year lists ranking corruption in various countries. It has just come up with a list of the 10 most corrupt rulers; According to reasonably authoritative local estimates,\" Numerous Uno is Indonesia's 'Suharto' who is estimated to have skimmed off $15-35 billion. He is followed by the Philippines Marcos ($ 5-10 billion), Zaire\'s Mobutu ($ 5 billion), Nigeria\'s Abacha ($ 2-5 billion), Serbia\'s Milosevic ($ 1 billion), Haiti\'s Duvalier ($ 300-800 million), Peru\'s Fujimori ($ 600 million), Ukraine\'s Lazarenko ($ 114-200 million), Nicaragua’s Alemai ($ 100 million) and the Philippines Estrada ($ 78-80 million).This list is neither complete nor exhaustive. Saddam Hussein and his cronies might have skimmed more than some of the above rulers.Now the point of discussion is: Why do some corrupt regimes do very well and others badly?If we take the case of Indonesia, we see the income of Indonesian’s quadruple to $1000 per capita under the regime of Suharto. Indonesia’s economy during 1980-1990, showed miraculous uptrend, graduating from a mere commodity producer it became a big exporter to manufacturers. During this golden period under Suharto poverty, infect mortality and fertility plummeted while the literacy soared high. The era ended in ruins during the Asian Financial Crisis, but that event upended regimes from Korea to Bangkok. The achievements during the period had remained impressive and remarkable.On the other hand, Mobutu left Zaire poorer and in more desperate condition than ever, like Nigeria and Haiti, where too, no progress was made. Marcos and Fujimori tried to rebuild the collapsing economies amidst lot of praise for their efforts, but the prevailing corruption and maladministration eroded the initial gains seriously.If we look at transparency international\'s list of 133 countries ranked. In order of corruption, we will find that the well-off western countries all figure in the top of 35. Singapore, the most successful developing country, ranks at 5, Botswana Africa\'s star performer, ranks at 30, the Scandinavians are generally regarded the most honest (Finland is No.1) and the USA comes a bit lower at 18. Paradoxically, some of the poorer countries are also among the most corrupt and some of the less corrupt are progressing.Again it is difficult to find any correlation between corruption and economic growth. Some of the fastest growing countries in the world are also in the bottom half of the corruption list. China stands at 66, India at 83 (alongside Malawi), Russia at 86 (alongside Mozambique) Vietnam at 100 (alongside Guatemala and Kazakhstan).Corruption in long run may destroy the whole society morally, ethically and economically. May be in the long run, a country needs clean government to reach the top of the income ladder, may be rapid income growth by itself induces better accountability and governance, may be corruption in long run degenerates the society into several misfortunes and evils. But one fact still stands out: Clean government is not a necessary condition for rapid economic growth.Bangladesh stands at the last of list of 133, yet it has been growing at five percent annually for a decade. Italy, the most corrupt country in Western Europe, has been one of the fastest growing economies. Corruption is often a good predictor of eventual economic crisis, yet when Argentina (92) went bust, the ensuing financial crisis also consumed its neighbors Uruguay which ranks at 33.The puzzle to ponder is why does corruption coexist with both good and bad economic performance? Why has India over the decades grown more slowly than Indonesia despite less corruption?A survey conducted for World Development Report some years ago, find one answer. Businessmen in surveyed countries said that the main problem with corruption was that it increases risks and uncertainties. The risks declined dramatically, if corruption produced reliable outcome (as in Indonesia). If all players have to pay 10 percent and could sure of getting their licenses (Madam Suharto was called 10%) entrepreneurs could treat this as just one more tax, factor it into their calculations of profit and so could invest with confidence of sure gain. Most businessman fear the arbitrariness where some entrepreneurs pay huge sums in vain, while others pay little or nothing and succeed. This happens when there is much discretion in decision making. It also happens when some decision makers are corrupt and others are not. India is such a country where entrepreneurs are not sure of the things, some decision makers are corrupt and others are honest. One more crucial things about India is the rule of nepotism, rule of criminals and blackmailing through other modes even after paying demanded money. Arbitrariness in decisions, unreason ability of demands makes the business wary of dealing in such cases. There is a saying in India that we have honest politicians, who take money and do the needful, dishonest politicians who take money and do not deliver the goods and madmen who do not take money at all. In this lexicon, Suharto was both honest and sane and delivered the goods. The worst situation is when the ruler extorts without giving anything in return, this seems to be a case in Zaire and Nigeria. Finally, the quality of institutions seems to be the most important factor for the growth of a country. If the institutions work even moderately well, progress is possible even if money is skimmed off at the top. But if the institutions are incapable of enforcing any rights, corruption will hasten economic collapse. So far Indian economy is concerned the slow progress is the result of lack of decision making at higher levels. Many politicians who takes money but could not enforce their will because of powerful lobby of bureaucrats at many places and in a democracy like India, voice of media, voice of opposition could suppress the wish of the leader. Ours is a peculiar democracy where politicians are corrupt but not authoritative, ours is a multi-party system where leg pulling for no cause, accusation without any evidence is common. Instability in political system is also responsible for the slow economic progress where the Prime Minister is always busy in satiating the coalition partners to keep attached. So far quality of institutions are concerned we are having well matured corporate and the fast development reflected during the last years, has brought stability in the country and good relations with the neighboring nations. India’s economic growth on an average 6 percent GDP despite considerable corruption is because of the stability and the liberalization measures taken by the present government, gradual privatization of various sector, reducing bureaucratic intervention in routine work and other measures adopted by the government. It is important to note that growth in some States, where institutions are strong and decision making is least arbitrary is faster than other States. In brief, it can well be concluded that corruption and economic growth has no clear correlation. Strong institutions, political stability, fast and reasonability in decision taking are some of the requirements for fast economic growth.


71 -

The reasons why accurate referencing is essential for academic work are not immediately apparent, particularly for students new to higher education. This essay will, therefore, examine why referencing is an essential part of academic writing and in the process address the question: ‘what is the point of referencing?’
There are three main reasons for referencing. Firstly, referencing helps student writers to construct, structure, support and communicate arguments. Secondly, references link the writer’s work to the existing body of knowledge. Thirdly, only through referencing can academic work gain credibility.

This essay will discuss these three aspects of referencing in detail, examine their validity, identify how referencing affects a writer’s writing style, and show how referencing helps students to present their own ideas and opinions in assignments.

Becker (1986) believes the construction of arguments is the most important function of referencing systems. There are four dimensions to this. Firstly, drawing on existing literature, academic writers can construct their own arguments - and adopting a referencing system supports this process. Secondly, it helps to structure the existing information and arguments by linking published authors to their respective works. Third, referencing helps academic writers identify sources, gather evidence, as well as show the relationships between existing knowledge. Finally, referencing also provide a framework to enable writers to structure their arguments effectively by assessing, comparing, contrasting or evaluating different sources. 

However, merely describing existing research, rather than producing their own contributions to the discussion, is inadequate for most academic writers. It is important for every academic writer to avoid this narrow-minded argumentation trap; academic writing is not just about compiling existing arguments, but adding new perspectives, finding new arguments, or new ways of combining existing knowledge. 
For example, Barrow and Mosley (2005) combined the fields Human Resources and Brand Management to develop the ‘Employer Brand’ concept.

When the argument has been constructed, it needs academic support – and only references can provide this required support. We all know that academic works are not about stating opinions - as that would be akin to journalistic comment - but arguments are supported by evidence, and only arguments presented with sufficient and valid support are credible. Hence arguments are only as strong as the underlying evidence: arguments relying on questionable sources are – well, questionable. 

Referencing also enables writers to communicate their arguments efficiently. The referencing framework allows them to produce a holistic work with different perspectives, whilst still emphasising their own positions; quotations, for example, help the reader to differentiate the writer’s opinions from others. Again, if arguments are badly referenced, readers might not be able to distinguish the writers’ own opinions from their sources. Especially for academic beginners, referencing helps them to adapt to the precise and accurate academic writing style required for degree level study. Neville (2007, p. 10) emphasises this issue of writing style, and identifies the quest to “find your own voice” as one of the main reasons for referencing. In academic writing, this requires developing an individual style that is neither convoluted nor convivial in tone, but which is clear, open but measured, and is about identifying and using evidence selectively to build and support one’s own arguments.
Immanuel Kant said “Science is organized knowledge.” This short quote brilliantly captures the point that the primary mission of science and other disciplines is not to promote individual achievements, but to establish a connected, collective, and recognised body of knowledge. 
This is the most fundamental reason for referencing from a theoretical point of view. Hence some authors identify this as the principal reason for referencing: “The primary reason for citation [...] is that it encourages and supports the collective construction of academic knowledge” (Walker & Taylor, 2006, pp.29-30).
The writer’s references are links to this network of knowledge. Without these links an academic work would operate within an academic vacuum, unrelated to existing academic knowledge. A writer needs to show how his or her work relates to current research and debates in their chosen subject area.

Referencing not only connects a student writer’s work to existing research, but clearly distinguishes the writer’s own ideas from established arguments –and failing to indicate that ideas are taken from the existing body of knowledge would be plagiarism. This is one of the five principles of referencing identified by Walker and Taylor (2006). 
Neville also identifies the link to existing knowledge as one of the main reasons for adopting a referencing style; he highlights “tracing the origin of ideas”, “spreading knowledge” and “indicating appreciation” (2007, pp.9-10), which leads to the next point. 

Referencing a work indicates that the writer finds the referenced material important: hence references create ‘academic clout’ in an assignment. In the global academic community a more-cited article will find more recognition. However, this practice is not without its critics. Thody, for example, calls this the “sycophantic” use of referencing - and it can certainly be used to “flatter your mentors” (2006, p.186). Thompson calls this “ritualized obedience to the reigning authorities” (2003, p.27).  So the important issue here is not about selecting references for their expediency value, but for their enduring quality. This brings us to the next point: credibility.

Martin Joseph Routh said in 1878: “You will find it a very good practice always to verify your references, sir!” Correct referencing enables, therefore, the reader to check sources and verify conclusions. The issue of credibility is identified by commentators as a key issue in referencing.  Nygaard, for example, identifies credibility as the main reason for referencing: “The goal of referencing is to enhance [...] your credibility as an author” (2008, p.177).   Neville came to the same conclusion that “to be taken seriously, [a writer] needs to make a transparent presentation of valid evidence” (2007, p.10). Also the Academic Learning Support from Central Queensland University (2007) sees the credibility of arguments as primary motive for correct referencing.
References allow the reader to trace the source of the writer’s arguments, consult the original independently and verify whether the writer’s usage of the sources is valid. Some readers, for example, interested in a point in question, might want to verify the writer’s interpretation of a referenced work. The quality of references is, therefore, extremely important for the credibility of an academic work. Arguments are only as good as the underlying references - untrustworthy and unreliable sources can even invalidate an argument, while reliable and dependable sources strengthen the writer’s argument.
Finally, the writer’s selection of sources also demonstrates whether the writer has evaluated all important arguments and has a thorough understanding of the subject. Only a credible work that takes all important arguments into account will find acceptance in the academic world.
So what is the point of referencing?  This essay has presented three main arguments why academic writers have to adopt a referencing system: Firstly, it helps to structure, support and communicate arguments. Secondly, it links the work to the existing body of knowledge, although it is also important for writers not merely to present the ideas of others, but to contribute where possible with innovative ideas of their own. Thirdly, only referencing can give the argument credibility – and this is a particularly significant element for success in the academic world.
                    



109 -

The Traditional costing practices were pressurised by Cooper & Kaplan, (1984) due to the failure
of providing detailed and quality information for decision making. The Activity Based Costing
system was initiated in United States by Cooper & Kaplan in 1987, which amended the cost
system by expanding the indirect cost pools and identifying cost drivers. The ABC system
allocates the cost on the basis of cost drivers. Activity-based Management (ABM) represents a
way of managing a firm with activities using the results of the ABC technique. Practically, there
is a continuum between these two methods in a firm using them (Antos & Brimson, 1999).

This paper is structured into three sections. The first section deals with the publication released
on ABC costing since its inception to the present date. It also expands or criticises the theory
provided by Kaplan and Johnson. The second section assesses the impact of ABC studies on the
companies and consultants. It also discusses the perceived benefits provided by implementation
of ABC system in organisations. The third section provides the conclusion. The section presents
the literature and evaluation on the publications identifying the ABC techniques and its
development. The relevant case study is also presented to provide the evidence of Researches.
The ABC method was considered in mid of 1980’s by Kaplan to amend the misleading
allocation of overheads to the products or services. Initially, it was only a response by American
scholars over incorrect standard costing methods. After the initial response, several scholars also
provided their opinions. Lebas (1991) agreed that ABC has gained strategic and management dimensions. The operational model was developed by shank (1989) with the use of key success
factors and analyses the company’s internal process with the help of ABC technique.
The formal management accounting approach provided by Kaplan & Johnson reveals the
resistance from the management control, strategic management and operational control.
According to Bhimani (2007), there is rising interest in strategic management accounting (SMA).
Under a firm, a SMA tool has the ability to link the strategic & marketing goals with the
operational goals. Roslender & Hart (2003) focused on the work of marketing aspects and
Brimson (1988) focused over the work of strategic dimensions. 

Different practitioners & scholars are of their opinion that ABC system has various pitfalls.
These criticisms includes the costly implementation of ABC, greater time utilisation and difficult
to define the cost drivers. Kaplan & Anderson (2007) illustrates that the ABC software of a
Manufacturing company Hendee Enterprise took 3 days in calculating the overall the cost for the
company’s activity which includes 45thousand items, 10 thousand orders and 150 activities. 
ABC has cost more accurately than the traditional system cost issues, it is capable of recognising
in detail the causes of cost and helps us in better management of activities. Kuchta (2007)
indicate that advantages or benefits of adoption of ABC include improving the accuracy and
relevancy of product cost. It also provides cost information for making timely decisions and
follows more closely the trail of the indirect costs and the cost object. On the one hand, the study
of Malmi & Teemu (1999) states that for research costs management and results are needed to
progress firsthand.

A recent study by Rodriguez (2010), review thoroughly the existing empirical evidence
internationally, about the process of ABC system implementation. Its main findings were the
following:
The technical, organisational and cultural factors most affecting the implementation of
ABC system are: cost level indirect manufacturing, complexity and diversity products,
the existence of an internal leader, size and the complexity of the company and the values
and beliefs that underlie a company measures such as innovation and customer service.
• The implementation of various international ABC models is examined through surveys,
tablets or in-depth case study of the process implementation in different private
companies & economic sectors whose information is analysed by multiple regression
models.
• Analysis of ABC model errors, such as errors in the estimation of model time. ABC
designs are based on experiments and statistical system of the results.
• The consequences of implementing the ABC system in the companies leads to
improvements in cost, quality, in production cycle times and profitability. For example,
the application of the processes of continual improvement to optimise the use of scarce
resources of an organisation.

There are new uses of the ABC system in the value chain analysis methodology (VCA) in order
to reduce costs in the chain of supplies. In a case study of a chain British supermarket with its
suppliers presents this new application of the ABC system (Cooper & Kaplan, 1991). The
following illustrates the application of the ABC costing on the basis of information of the
Peruvian company based in Frenosa. 

Frenosa is a manufacturing company, located in the industrial area, department of Lima Callao.
The company operations includes the design, development and production of materials bearings,
brake fluid and coolant, rivets tooling to install and auto friction materials parties. The company
belongs to the metal industry mechanics and is classified within the ISIC 3430: manufacture of
parts and accessories for vehicles and their engines. In July 2000 the company obtained the
certified ISO 9002 by BVQI accredited AZ Austria, ANSI Arab, and DAR for manufacture
processes of its different product lines. Certification has earned him and strengthen the
recognition and confidence to their local customers and from outside.
To develop the case study selected and coasted production processes and supporting steps to
generate the ABC system, taking into account each of the elements involved are:
• Gather all costs and expenses of the company under the concept of resource pool. Next,
resources are typified into three categories: materials then, direct staff and other
resources.
• Select the cost objects: production activities and product liners clutch.
• Then following question are asked: what are the costs of resources that make up the pool
and are the resources directly attributable to product? If the answer is yes, then charged
directly to the product. As an illustrative we can mention that the costs of materials are
charged directly to the lining of clutch.
• If the answer to the question in third point is negative, then it is necessary to develop inproducers
of resources to allocate the cost resources to activities.

A Budget can be described as a standard or a plan in financial terms. The budgets are prepared in
order to control and measure the actual performance with the planned. One of the Budget styles
increasingly demanded is activity-based budget (ABB) which has the potential to link the cost
with the activities which gives the management better assessment of resource allocation and full
cost of product or service. ABB is derived from ABC and is related to zero-based budgeting.
Once the total activity cost is determined than drivers can be assigned which connects the
primary activities with the support activities of the organisation. The development of activity
based budgets will help senior executives and managers in exercising control through several
ways. Flexibility can be introduced in the labour force such as labour deployed according to the
need, hidden cost and waste can be eliminated, considering the least and most expensive
activities, places can be identified where spending can be reduced and cost baseline could be
established through the introduction of technology and process which limits the efforts
requirements in the activity (Vercio, 2011).

In today’s Business environment, the recent automation and technology have affected the cost
structure of product & services and the production processes.
Strategic control and planning have become essential requirement due to the rising completion
and variation in consumer demands. The classical budgeting techniques are unable to meet the
needs of modern companies and hence there is a need for advanced budgeting methods such as
activity based costing which has become popular among the company’s managers. Under this
system, the costs are apportioned to the products depending on the activities which are required
for the production of these products. This system provides information regarding product costs to
the manager and this management style is known as activity based management. The purpose of this activity based management is to fulfil the customer demands through creating value and to
control the interaction and relationship between product performance and production processes
(Miller, 2010). ABB as a part of ABM is a method that determines the forecasted activity cost
needed for a specified product or service production. The usage of ABC in budgeting process
helps the managers to convert the fixed costs into variable costs and to determine cost in
objective manner (Swenson, 2009). ABB is a strong cost controlling and planning tool which
eliminates the activities that does not add value and thereby raising the cost efficiency.
Accordingly, ABB is a part of ABC and ABM which ensures to assess the profitability and costs
measure more accurately and easily. It further provides information regarding enhancement of
production process, customer profitability analyses and pricing decision. 


The ABC has generated enormous enthusiasm in and around its basic ideas. Moreover,
researchers are studying the actual cost accounting practices of companies. The Research of Dr.
Michiharu Sakurai conducted in 1998 of the School of Business Senshu University in Japan
conducted an investigation in which he describes how most companies in the United States and
Europe were working or implementing ABC systems and in Asia almost 30% were inclined
towards this costing method.
The ABC system is the most developed and expensive attempt done so far to identify and
correlation that causes (cost drivers) and activities. It extends the literature that there are many
authors that who have argued that in our area we usually determine costs items to the difficulty
of finding distribution bases to ensure accurate costing. 

The ABC has correctly allocated cost by the use of multiple cost allocation bases. The ABC has
criticised the abuse of labour based direct cost allocation, especially when used as a base only to
apply indirect costs to products. Therefore, we can say that this new costing method have based
their criticism of the traditional costing that they were always using labour as a basis for
application apportionments.
The ABC has stressed the idea that executives manage the costs to monitor activities instead of
products. Accounting costs highlights the interdependent activities and trends between activities
in many departments or functional areas.
The ABC has stressed that the costs of production are affected by all functions in the value chain,
not only by the manufacturing cost. Inventory costs provide incomplete production costs while
taking decisions. 
The ABC has alerted the directions of the existing cross-subsidisation between the production
cost when there are a wide range of operational activities and a wide range of products. That is,
the case studies have shown that existing systems costs using large load averages.
Affects of ABC for Companies and Consultants
Indeed, proponents of the method of traditional cost accounting have insisted that the statement
of the ABC has already been addressed previously by several authors and that there are
intelligent administrations application databases using indirect charges. The Activity-Based
Management is not the excellent way to respond to the cost-generating activity, which is true;similarly, an appropriate direction needs not to have an accurate assessment of each functional
area and through the resources required to implement it.
Many scholars and consultants have never tended to explore the history of thought. However, if
they do, avoid leaning their versions of the history. If they do, should be especially careful to
avoid claiming that their ideas are new. 

Influence in decisions relating to the fixed term pricing, product diversification and sale and
manufacture thereof. Such simplified ignores other sources of information; other factors
influence the pricing and numerous interdependencies and points between products and costs.
The activity-based costing (ABC) consultants, practitioners and managers observe the
questioning process at the soul and heart of ABC execution. Apart from a dependable data
collection technique, it also trains the employees regarding ABC and activity-based
management. More importantly, it also assures the achievement of the project by supporting in
constructing a feeling of possession among the employees. Therefore, it is essential that the
interviewer who might be a consultant from outside the company or is a member of the project
team. It should be well educated and trained over handling various activities of departments
including the areas of ABM and ABC. 

As an example we have the book: Strategic Cost Analysis by Shank (1989) falling in all pointing
errors, as attributed characteristics not possessed by ABC shows as a panacea when it is only an
instrument further simplifies the job of address-unresolved see all problems and be the great
innovation awarded him their eulogies. At the same time some scholars ignore the difficulties presented by such a method, which are neither few nor simple to solve. It is therefore inevitable
to refer to the confusion causing the fact that a book with such misunderstanding of what are the
costs has dissemination has been achieved e.g. even claims that the traditional methods "as all
they do is give distorted information nothing wrong late and cannot thus making decisions. This
author goes on to say, From indeed, if top management is unaware of his obsolescence, then it
runs a serious risk of wrong decisions and follow product strategies that can be wrong fatal
consequences. 

In addition, this book has several failures of conceptualisation in terms of which is a method, for
instance, is intended to pre establish the back-flush accounting as a method cost when in reality
the change represents over the traditional method is only in eliminating the charge that would
normally be production makes the process of labour and indirect charges. The same is true in the
case of throughput accounting in which only the raw material is considered as Cost, and labor
and charges indirect and overhead costs that take results (Zimmerman, 1997). Apart from that
already given in the previous note, this change from the traditional method does not involve talk
of a new method. 

Furthermore, it is also arguable that labour is always considered a fixed cost, as their
organisations in which the item is still functional of manufacture and, therefore, it is clearly
Variable mind, the typical case would be the. As regards the mathematical model invented by the
author of the text, it is only a suggestion to reduce costs, which does not mean, either, which is a
cost method. With regard to the concepts Chain value and product life cycle, although interesting
topics to include methods costing should not be considered as such because not imply a change
in assignments or new application databases, or that there are elements different cost, etc., features that do includes the ABC. It is important to elucidate this issue because in the School of
Accounting and Administration of the UNAM some teachers have adopted proposals which are
considered as costing methods. 


165 - 
INDIA is great country. Her civilization is vast and varied. Her history is full of events. She was known to outside world from early times. In the East, she received respect as as land of wisdom. In the West, she rose to fame as a land of wealth. Through ages, the glories of India found place in world history.

The original name of India is Bharatvarsha, or the land of Bharat. As mythological figure, Bharat was the son of King Dushyanta and Shakuntala, and was a mighty hero. The ancient Aryans gave name to their land after the name of the great monarch. According to another belief, Bharat was the son of Rushabha Deva and was a great king. The name Bharatvarsha was given after his name. This name was applied to the whole land from the Himalayas to the seas. It covers the entire geographical India. The People of the land were described as Bharata-Santati or descendants of Bharat.

The name India came from the name of the river Sindhu. The ancients Persians called that river ‘Hindu’. In course of time the name Hindu was applied to the people and the land was called Hind.

The ancient Greeks called the river Sindhu as Indu.Like the Persians, the Greeks and Romans called the land as Hind or India. Finally, from these words came the name ‘India, for the land. The people were called ‘Indians’.

As the people were known as Hindu, by middle ages, the land was called Hindustan.

The names India and Bharatvarsha have as great significance. They are the names for the whole land from the Himalayas to Cape Comorin and from Hindukush to Burma. When the ancient Greeks could not think of as small Greece as their motherland, the ancient Indians thought of a huge sub-continent as their mother country. They thought of this oneness long before their rulers attempted at political unity.

India occupies as favorable position in the Geography of the East. She is like the center of gravity of the Asian Continent. There is as chain of smaller States like Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Arabia, Jordan, Israel, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey to her north-west. There is another chain of smaller states to her southeast such as Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia. India thus commands as political advantage for her geographical position.

Geography has also given India as distinct existence. She is bounded only the north by the highest mountain ranges of the world, the Himalays.in the east, west and south, there are the seas and ocean. In the north-west, the Hindukush and Suleiman mountains separate India from Russia, Afghanistan and Iran. In the east, the Arakan Mountains separate her from Burma. Protected only all sides by natural frontiers, India maintains as clear identity of her own.

Though separated from other countries, India is not and isolated land. Over the seas, she maintained cultural and commercial contact with the outside world. Through the Khyber, Bolan and other passes in the North West, foreign races entered into India at different times.

Within India’s strong geographical walls, her people developed their own social, political and cultural life. Side by side, they kept their doors and windows open to external influences.

The geographical India is as vast sub-continent. In area, it is as large as Europe without Russia. More than four millions square kilometers make upon its territory.

India is divided into four broad natural divisions. First is the Himalayan Region, extending from the high mountains towards the swampy jungles down. Kashmir, Kangara, Tehri, Kumaun, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan are included in this region. The second is the great Northern plains from the Punjab to Bengal, called as the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The fertile valleys of the Indus and its tributaries, and alluvial lands watered by the Ganges, Yamuna and Brahmaputra, make this region the most productive and most populated. The third region is the Central Indian and Deccan Plateau. It is geologically the oldest part of India. The Western Ghats and Eastern Ghats stand only two sides of the Deccan. The fourth divisions contain the two long narrow coastal plains of South India between the Western Ghats and the Arabian Sea on one side, and between the Eastern Ghats and Bay of Bengal on the other.

In spite of natural divisions, India remains one Geographical unit. It is unfortunate; however, that the geographical India stands divided today into three political states, namely, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. This division has harmed every part. Because, geography offered climatic conditions, river systems, natural resources and economic productivity in as balanced way for the whole sub-continent. An unnatural partition has distributed the natural harmony of the land.

India lost about one-third of her Geographical area because of partition in 1947. Yet her size and population are large enough to make her a great country.

Vast as India’s size is, vast too is her population. Long ago, in fifth century B.C., the Greek historian Herodotus said, “Of all the nations that whenever know, it is India which has the largest population”. To-day, the population of India is the second largest in the earth.

This population is made up of several ethnic groups. It is said that India contains as large variety of human types than any other country. These types are again divided into many casts and sub-castes. Besides, the people follow several major religions and many creeds. And, finally, there are about two hundred different languages and dialects through which the people speak.

From ethnic and linguistic consideration, the people of India can be divided into four major groups. The first group contains the earliest inhabitants of the soil. They are primitive dwellers of hills and mountains. Some of these people like the Todas, Ho and Santal are the descendants of the primitives of the new Stone Age. The Kolhas, Bhils and Mundas represent the prominent primitive’s tribes. They are dark in color, have flat nose and not tall in height. They speak languages, which came from the Austric group of languages. The second group contains the Mongloaid types. They are seen in Bhutan, Sikkim and Nepal, in the hills of Assam and in the lower lands of Himalays.Gurkha, Bhutia and Khasi types of people being to this group. Their color is yellowish, face is broad and nose is flat.

The third groups contain the Dravidian people of the South. They speak the Dravidian group of languages such as Tamil, Telgu, Malayalam, Kanarese or Kannada. The fourth groups covered the Indo-Aryan types. They are spread over Kashmir, Rajsthan areas of Uttar Pradesh and other places. Their bodies are tall, complexion is fair, forehead is broad and nose is prominent. They speak the Indo-Aryan Languages are derived from Prakrit and Sanskrit. Their languages include Gujurati, Hindi, Bengali, Oriya and Marathi etc.

Through long ages, different people have got mixed up. The Dravidians and Aryans are so much mixed up that at many places it is difficult to know the differences. Because of such racial fusion the people of some areas are described as Aryo-Dravidian.

Besides these groups, some other races also came from outside and stayed only permanently. In earlier times, there came the Persians, Greeks, Scythians, Kushans, Sakas and the Huns. Most of these people got completely merged with the Indian people. Even the most terrible Huns lost their identity and got mixed upon with the Rajputs.Later only there came the Arabs, Turks, Afghans and Mughals. They also became indianised while following Islam as their religion.

Thus India contains as teeming population. With the above groups, regions and languages, they form the Indian nation.

India is like as world miniature. It presents many climatic conditions. Its geographical features differ greatly. There are mountains peak under eternal snow, arid deserts, dense forests, plateaus, plains and river valleys. From extreme cold to extreme heat, from highest rainfalls to no rains, from densely populated areas to uninhabited wilderness, India presents the diversities of nature.

The Indian people, too, present enormous diversities. They differ among themselves in color, creed caste and customs. They differ in dresses, festivals and food habits. They speak different languages. There are primitive primes who still live in wild forests and hunt animals for food. There are most advanced city people who live ultra-modern life.

There are different religions too. From Brahmanical Hinduism there came out Jainism and Buddhism as two other great religions. Late in middle ages, Sikhism raised yet another religion. From outside came the Persian Zoroastrianism, Islam and Christianity. Thus, India is a home of seven religions. And, of course, many smaller faiths and creeds.

India thus appears as a land of diversities. But it is the story of unity which is the lesson of Indian history. Unity in diversity is the Indian way of life. There are many types of people, but one Indian nation. There are many religions, but the state of secular to promote and protect all religions. There are several regional cultures, but they represent various aspects of Indian civilization .In brief, Unity is more real than diversities.
Firstly, from a remote past, the geographical India has been thought of as one country. The ancient seers gave the name of Bharatvarsha to the whole land. All the people were described as Bharata-Santati or the children of Bharat.This created as mental unity among the people. The prophets, preachers, philosophers and poets always thought of India as one. This influenced people everywhere.

Secondly, the people were thought to respect their country as of faith. The Himalayas and the Vindyas were regarded sacred. The river Ganges was worshipped as “Mother Ganges”. The people had to remember the great rivers like Ganga, Yamuna, Godavari, Sarswati, Narmada, Sindhu and Kaberi almost as a daily duty. In his lifetime, every Indian hoped to been visit the four holy places at the farthest ends of India. They were Badrinath only Himalayas, Rameswar of Kumarika, and Dwaraka on the western coast and Puri only the eastern coast. Even after death bones of an Indian are deposited in the holy water of Ganges and Yamuna at Prayag- as central place of the sub-continent. Such systems made the people deeply attached to their motherland.

Thirdly, the rulers of ancient times aimed at the ideal of becoming as Chakravarti King. To become a Chakravarti, one was required to conquer “thousands yojanas of land that stretch from the Himalaya to the Sea”. Inspired by this ideal, great heroes tried to unite India politically. Chandragupta Maurya, Asoka, Samudragupta and Harsha attempted this in ancient times. As the tradition continued, Muslim rulers like Allaudin, Akbar and Aurangzeb and the Hindu Peshwa Baji Rao tried for the same medieval time. Finally, the British followed the legacy and united India in modern times. Thus India’s political unity remained as goal at all times.
Fourthly, there developed as linguistic unity from remote times. At first, Prakrit was like a lingua franca in India. In far corners, of the land Asoka’s inscriptions were written in Prakrit. Later on, Sanskrit became the all-India language among learned. As common language worked as a strong bond of unity.

Fifthly, the Indian religions were meant for all people of India .The Vedas, Purans and great Epics of Ramayana and Mahabharata dominated the Indian thought everywhere. Whether in Kashmir or at Kumarika, at Taxila or Tamil land, Gujarat or Assam the epics provided lessons to the learned and the common people all alike. The society thus derived certain basic values from as common source.

Sixthly, there grew as cultural unity among the people through common faiths, philosophies, literature and art. Many religious and social ceremonies took as common pattern. Art and architecture, with local differences served a common purpose. For example, places of worship or images could look different from place to place, but everywhere they served the same need. Thus, as common culture promoted unity.

Finally, the history of India provided as sense of unity to the people of India. People cherished the memories of India’s spiritual leader, political heroes and men of letters. The glories of the past worked as a source of pride. As the descendants of great ancestors, and heirs to splendid civilizations, the people developed their faith in oneness.

The Indian unity thus as result of fundamental causes. With and ability to synthesize things, India recognizes diversity for the sake of variety. And, variety adds vitality to unity.
