Global warming is an increase in the average temperature of the earth’s temperature, especially a sustained change sufficient to cause climate change. The average facade temperature of the globe has increased more than degree since 1900 and the speed of warming has been almost three folds the century long average since 1970.


This increase in earth’s average temperature is called Global warming. More or less all specialists studying the climate record of the earth have the same opinion now that human actions, mainly the discharge of green house gases from smokestacks, vehicles, and burning forests, are perhaps the leading power driving the fashion.


The gases append to the planet’s normal greenhouse effect, permitting sunlight in, but stopping some of the ensuing heat from burning back to space.


Based on the study on past climate shifts, notes of current situations, and computer simulations, many climate scientists say that lacking of big curbs in greenhouse gas discharges, the 21st century might see temperatures rise of about 3 to 8 degrees, climate patterns piercingly shift, ice sheets contract and seas rise several feet.


With the probable exemption of one more world war, a huge asteroid, a fatal plague, or global warming may be the only worst dangers to our planet earth.



The major cause of global warming is the release of green house gases like carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide etc into the atmosphere. The major source of carbon dioxide is the power plants. These power plants emit large amounts of carbon dioxide produced from burning of fossil fuels for the purpose of electricity generation.



About twenty percent of carbon dioxide emitted in the atmosphere comes from burning of gasoline in the engines of the vehicles. Buildings, both commercial and residential represent a larger source of global warming pollution than cars and trucks.



Building of these structures require a lot of fuel to be burnt which emits a large amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Methane is more than 20 times as effectual as C02 at entrapping heat in the atmosphere. Methane is obtained from resources such as rice paddies, bovine flatulence, bacteria in bogs and fossil fuel manufacture. The main sources of nitrous oxide include nylon and nitric acid production, cars with catalytic converters, and the use of fertilisers in agriculture and the burning of organic matter.



Another cause of global warming is deforestation that is caused by cutting and burning of forests for the purpose of residence and industrialisation.



Scientists all over the world are making predictions about the ill effects of Global warming and connecting some of the events that have taken place in the past few decades as an alarm of global warming. The effect of global warming is increasing the average temperature of the earth.


A rise in earth’s temperatures can in turn cause to other alterations in the ecology, including an increasing sea level and modifying the quantity and pattern of rainfall. These modifications may boost the occurrence and concentration of severe climate events, such as floods, famines, heat waves, tornados, and twisters.



Other consequences may comprise of higher or lower agricultural outputs, glacier melting, lesser summer stream flows, genus extinctions and rise in the ranges of disease vectors. As an effect of global warming, many species of birds and animals have already become extinct. As an effect of global warming various new diseases have emerged lately.


It is expected that many species will die off or become extinct due to the increase in the temperatures of the water, whereas various other species, which prefer warmer waters, will increase tremendously Perhaps the most disturbing changes are expected in the coral reefs that are expected to die off as an effect of global warming.



The global warming is expected to cause irreversible changes in the ecosystem and the behaviour of animals. Birds are a species that will be affected by a change in the climate. Global warming might result in birds finding a more permanent home in northern areas in the Northern Hemisphere.



The scientists tell us that the tundra is in danger of melting due to an amount of extra global warming pollution that is equivalent to the net amount that is previously in the earth/’s atmosphere. Likewise, earlier one more team of scientists reported that in a single year Greenland witnessed 32 glacial earthquakes between 4.6 and 5.1 on the Richter scale.


This is a disturbing sign and points that a huge destabilisation that may now be in progress deep within the second biggest growth of ice on the planet. This ice would be enough to raise sea level 20 feet worldwide if it broke up and slipped into the sea.



Each day passing brings yet new proof that we are now in front of a global emergency, a climate emergency that needs instant action to shrilly decrease carbon dioxide emissions worldwide in order to turn down the earth’s rising temperatures and avoid any calamity.



It is not easy to attach any particular event to global warming, but studies prove the fact that human activities are increasing the earth’s temperature.


Even though most predictions focus on the epoch up to 2100, even if no further greenhouse gases were discharged after this date, global warming and sea level would be likely to go on to rise for more than a millennium, since carbon dioxide has a long average atmospheric life span.


Many efforts are being made by various nations to cut down the rate of global warming. One such effort is the Kyoto agreement that has been made between various nations to reduce the emissions of various green house gases. Also, many non profit organisations are working for the cause.


A1 Gore was one of the foremost U.S. politicians to heave an alarm about the hazards of global warming. He has produced a significantly acclaimed documentary movie called “An Inconvenient Truth” and has written a book that archives his advice that Earth is dashing toward an immensely warmer future.


A1 Gore, has given various speeches to raise an awareness of global warming. He has warned people about the ill effects of Global warming and its remedies.


The future of emissions damage depends on several factors, demographics, economics, technology, policies and institutional developments. Future predictions do not look good for this planet if nothing is done soon.

