Terrorism is the process unfair and violent activities performed by the group of trained people called terrorists. There is only one boss who gives strict orders to the group to perform particular activity in any ways. They want money, power and publicity for the fulfilment of their unfair ideas. In such conditions, it is media which really helps to spread the news about terrorism in the society of any nation. Group of terrorist also take support of the media by especially contacting them to let them know about their plan, ideas and goals.

Various groups of the terrorists are named according to their aims and objectives. Acts of terrorism affects the human mind to a great extent and makes people so fear that they fear to go outside from their own home. They think that there is terror everywhere outside the home in the crowd like railway station, temple, social event, national event and so many. Terrorists want to spread terror within specific area of high population in order to publicize for their act as well as rule on people’s mind. Some recent act of terrorism are 9/11 attacks on the U.S. and 26/11 attack in India. It has affected the financial status and humanity to a great extent.

In order to reduce the terror and effect of terrorism from the nation, a tight security arrangement is done on the order of government. All the places which are crowded because of any reasons like social programmes, national events like Republic day, Independence Day, temple and etc. Each and every person has to follow the rules of security arrangement and has to pass from the automatic machine of full body scanner. Using such machines, security get help in detecting the presence of terrorists. Even after arrangement of such tight security, we are still unable to make it effective against the terrorism.

Our country is spending lots of money every year to fight against the terrorism as well as remove the terrorist group. However, it is still growing like a disease as new terrorists are getting trained on daily basis. They are very common people like us but they are trained to complete some unfair act and forced to fight against their one society, family and country. They are so trained that they never compromise their life, they are always ready to finish their life while fighting. As an Indian citizen, we all are highly responsible to stop the terrorism and it can be stopped only when we never come into the greedy talk of some bad and frustrated people.

